Statistics and probability are different but strongly related fields of mathematics.
In probability, we make predictions about
future events based on models or causes that we assume
whereas in statistics we analyze the data from
the past events to infer what those models or causes could be.
There's almost an opposite relation between these two.
In one, you're predicting data and in the other,
you're using data to predict.
Although not all topics and both fields require an understanding of the other,
you'll need a good understanding in probability
for the foundation you'll be building in statistics.
With that in mind, let's get started with the basics of probability.